Thursday, 06 Sep 2012

12:00 AM MYT
Keeping it in the family: Tan (middle) with his son, Ronald Tan, senior planning and development manager, and wife, Datin Sharon Tan, deputy CEO.

The courier industry has come a long way from its early days of homing pigeons and bicycle messengers.

The courier industry today plays an important role in the world’s commerce as one courier veteran says, “The world’s business will come to a halt if couriers stop their services.”

In Malaysia, the courier industry was pioneered by large foreign players like DHL and TNT in the late 1960s.

Homegrown companies started sprouting out about a decade later and some have grown to become total logistic solution providers with a global network.

Mohammed Ali Noordin, the chief executive officer of ABX Express (M) Sdn Bhd has built a long career in the courier industry. He was part of the start-up team that set up Skypack Courier & Cargo in the Middle East and after that had a hand in setting up the DHL branch in Sabah.

In 1991, the opportunity came for him to buy a 70% stake in ABX and there has been no turning back for Mohammed. ABX was originally started in Sabah by Tan Chong Yian in 1984 after he left his job as a senior accountant with Labuan Shipyard.

“It is an interesting business but you must have the experience to start a courier business,” said Mohammed.

ABX had the good fortune of securing the sole agency title for Malaysia and Brunei for Airbourne Express, then the third largest public listed freight company in the US.

Datuk David Tan, chief executive officer of City-Link Express (M) Sdn Bhd, concurs that there is nothing quite like the courier business where everything is done to honour time.

“We get the satisfaction from knowing that we deliver packages that are important to our customers on time,” said Tan.

City-Link was founded by Tan in 1979 after an accidental stint in the courier line. Tan was previously working in computer services but was called to Kuala Lumpur to help with a new delivery service.

He recalls the early days of operating out of car parks but eventually found a niche for his new venture.

Shrinking returns

The industry is not without its challenges.

Pricing has always been an issue for the industry. Due to the open market policy, prices for courier service are not regulated, resulting in an ongoing price war among service providers.

For example, in the 1970s, prices of delivery for half a kilogramme in West Malaysia was about RM8 excluding handling fees. Today, the all-in price for the same weight is about RM2 to RM3.

The opeartional cost of courier services have increased over the last three decades due to rise in fuel and labour costs and inflation. On the other hand, Mohammed said margins are slipping and revenues are falling because service providers are unable to pass on the cost to consumers.

ABX makes an average annual revenue of RM50mil.

Mohammed added that foreign players were hiving off their domestic businesses and were concentrating more on outbound services as domestic margins are at a measly 2%.

“That is, in a way, beneficial for local players. The cost is much lower for local companies because most don’t spend on infrastructure. They have small set-ups and employ locals to do the delivery,” said Mohammed.

However, he noted that competition among local players remains stiff and it was tough to keep afloat in a price war.

“Profitability was definitely much better 20 to 30 years ago. Today, there is a lot of undercutting of prices as competition grows,” said Tan.

A need for regulation

Although there are 108 courier licences registered under the Malaysian communication and Multimedia Commission last year, Mohammed noted that only a small fraction provide full-scale courier services.

“There are a lot of small players in this industry. And a lot of them come and go. We need some kind of regulation to fix the number of players that offer full-fledged services or set a higher entry barrier. We have to strategise to be on better footing to build a healthy industry,” he said.

He cited China’s Postal Law as an example. The law was revised in 2009 to strengthen the supervision and administration of the postal market there.

Mohammed noted that under the new law, only a few out of the thousands of previously licenced courier service providers in China were qualified. This would encourage mergers and acquisitions (M&A) to ensure only serious players remain.

In Malaysia, Tan said of the 108 licenced providers, only 15 to 20 of them were serious players. He believes courier players should be categorised to create a tier-based industry.

“It is important for regulators to engage the service providers while balancing policy with public interest,” he said.

Tan added that a non-regulated industry will be detrimental for players in the long run.

He also expects consolidation in the courier industry over the next few years particularly in the Southeast Asian region as M&As will weed out smaller players and larger courier providers that can offer a wider range of services will be formed.

Tan noted that consolidation was already taking place in other markets.

“We foresee only one or two established Asian courier service providers as they will try to compete for greater market share in Asia,” said Tan, adding that Malaysia would have less than a handful of dominant players that are courier services corporations in the next five to 10 years.

Untapped potential

According to the Association of Malaysian Express Carriers, the local courier industry pooled in revenue of RM1.9bil in 2009 and the industry is expected to grow close to RM3bil by 2015. But this is only a fraction of other more established markets.

In the US, research firm IBISWorld estimates that the courier and local delivery services market is worth some US$80bil (RM249bil) per annum.

Deputy Information, Communications and Culture Minister Datuk Joseph Salang was quoted as saying that the courier industry is a sunrise sector. He noted that the industry was expected to grow more than 10% annually to 2015, which is faster than the GDP growth, and is expected to continue to expand rapidly.

“The market here is still young and the economy is growing and not yet matured. We have a good spread of business coming from the East and West of Malaysia.

“It is a growing market. We still have foreign players who are interested to come in,” said Mohammed.

Mohammed said the potential of the local courier industry lies with the growth of packages. Previously, much of the deliveries were centred on documents. But the parcel segment for courier business is growing in tandem with the growth of online retail.

The e-commerce industry will be an attractive industry to tap into as internet users continue to increase.

He also said larger companies can look into offering services along the whole value chain including trucking, warehousing and logistics services.

ABX recently expanded its warehousing capacity to 20,000sq ft following an acquisition in Sabah via its subsidiary UTS Logistics Sdn Bhd.

“There are plenty of opportunities ahead. The services offered in Malaysia today are only a tip of the iceberg. There are a lot more sophisticated services that are not yet explored here and I foresee potential in them because these services are already doing very well in other markets,” said Tan.

City-Link aims to be a one-stop centre to retain its customers.

City-Link will be completing its new 4.8ha hub next year and expects to increase its shipment processing capacity with this new hub. The company invested some RM65mil in the new hub and Tan hopes this expansion would contribute to its aim of 20% growth this year.

The company raked in a revenue of more than RM100mil last year.

City-Link is also looking at expansion opportunities abroad to strengthen its global network particularly in Vietnam and China.

“We have also invested a lot of money in technology. We have a very good track and trace system. So now, when we say a package is on the way, you can know where exactly your package is,” said Tan.